# Contributor Guide

Thank you for your interest in improving this project.
This project is open-source under the [MIT license] and
welcomes contributions in the form of bug reports, feature requests, and pull requests.

Here is a list of important resources for contributors:

- [Source Code]
- [Documentation]
- [Issue Tracker]
- [Code of Conduct]

## How to report a bug

Report bugs on the [Issue Tracker].

When filing an issue, make sure to answer these questions:

- Which operating system and Python version are you using?
- Which version of this project are you using?
- What did you do?
- What did you expect to see?
- What did you see instead?

The best way to get your bug fixed is to provide a test case,
and/or steps to reproduce the issue.

## How to request a feature

Request features on the [Issue Tracker].

## How to set up your development environment

You need Python 3.10+ and the following tools:

- [Poetry]
- [Nox]
- [nox-poetry]

Install [pipx]:

```console
python -m pip install --user pipx
python -m pipx ensurepath
```

Install [Poetry]:

```console
pipx install poetry
```

Install [Nox] and [nox-poetry]:

```console
pipx install nox
pipx inject nox nox-poetry
```

Install the pre-commit hooks

```console
nox --session=pre-commit -- install
```

Install the package with development requirements:

```console
poetry install
```

You can now run an interactive Python session, or your app:

```console
poetry run python
poetry run dapla-statbank-client
```

## How to test the project

Run the full test suite:

```console
nox
```

List the available Nox sessions:

```console
nox --list-sessions
```

You can also run a specific Nox session.
For example, invoke the unit test suite like this:

```console
nox --session=tests
```

Unit tests are located in the _tests_ directory,
and are written using the [pytest] testing framework.

## How to submit changes

Open a [pull request] to submit changes to this project.

Your pull request needs to meet the following guidelines for acceptance:

- The Nox test suite must pass without errors and warnings.
- Include unit tests. This project maintains 100% code coverage.
- If your changes add functionality, update the documentation accordingly.

Feel free to submit early, though—we can always iterate on this.

To run linting and code formatting checks before committing your change, you can install pre-commit as a Git hook by running the following command:

```console
nox --session=pre-commit -- install
```





## Project setup

### Poetry venv
Installing the dev-dependencies in a new environment can be done with the following command:
```bash
poetry install --with dev
```

Or if you want to call nox with poetry and pass pytest flags through...
```bash
poetry run nox -p 3.11
```

The marker "integration_dapla" is for running specific tests locally on a dapla. They are placed in tests/test_integration_dapla.py .\
Use this flag in the command-line call to avoid running them on other platforms.


### Pytest coverage
```bash
poetry run nox -s tests ypy -p 3.11
```
Run this when developing tests.
If you achieve a higher testing coverage make sure to increase the threshold in the workflow.
.github/workflows/tests.yml
(at the bottom)

### Running the pre-commit hooks locally
```bash
poetry run nox -s pre-commit -p 3.11
```
Several of the pre-commit hooks will try to modify the files on a fail. Re-running the command might therefore result in a different result the second time.

### Type-checking with Mypy
```bash
poetry run nox -s mypy -p 3.11
```

## Publish new version of package to Pypi

The action to publish to Pypi is connected with a workflow to releases from Github.
So to publish to Pypi, make sure everything is done, and in the main branch, bump the version in pyproject.toml, add a tag and release on Github.

## Rebuild docs
Necessary if you have changed the package at the submodule-level.

The content of the {eval-rst} block below is generated by the command:
```bash
poetry run sphinx-apidoc -T -f -t ./docs/templates -o ./docs ./src
```
from the root directory.



### Bump version
```bash
poetry version patch
```

It is recommended to open an issue before starting work on anything.
This will allow a chance to talk it over with the owners and validate your approach.

[mit license]: https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
[source code]: https://github.com/statisticsnorway/dapla-statbank-client
[documentation]: https://statisticsnorway.github.io/dapla-statbank-client
[issue tracker]: https://github.com/statisticsnorway/dapla-statbank-client/issues
[pipx]: https://pipx.pypa.io/
[poetry]: https://python-poetry.org/
[nox]: https://nox.thea.codes/
[nox-poetry]: https://nox-poetry.readthedocs.io/
[pytest]: https://pytest.readthedocs.io/
[pull request]: https://github.com/statisticsnorway/dapla-statbank-client/pulls

<!-- github-only -->

[code of conduct]: CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
